# CarND-Controls-PID
Self-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree Program

This project implements a PID controller of term#2 Self Driving Car nano degree. As part of this project, I wrote a controller for a simulator. Although, the scope of the projet was only to regulate 
the steering, I also wrote an improvised "throttle" contoroller based on the value of steering command. If the steering was below the threshold value (0.5) the throttle was added additional 
boost to its default value of 0.3. If the steering value was more than the threshold (0.5) the throttle was getting a reduction of value that sometimes resulting in breaking command (throttle < 0.0). 
The actual values of all parameters such as coefficient for steering Kp, Ki, Kd were found manually, b/c running the simulator for every parameter of gradient descent was not practical and manual 
search (guiding by intuition!) was converging faster. Having the simulator in headless mode would allow to automatically seach for best parameters.

For PID controller parameters, my final values were:
Kp = -0.15
Ki = 0.0
Kd = 0.8

In context of this work, I did not search for Ki since the simulator does not appear to any biases. Thus, the real search was only in finding the best ratio between Kp and Kd, which was found fast. 

The Kp coefficient of the PID controller implementation controls the fraction of the of the steering value generated by proportional term of the PID controller. In our case,
the proportion was to relation to cross-track error, and it manifested itself in the magnitude of pull of car in latteral direction toward the reference trajectory (middle of the road).
Left with only proportional term, the car would "overshoot" the actual reference line due to the specifics of the kinematic model of a car. This results in increasing oscillatory movement of the car, 
which large speed of the vehicle eventual pushes the car off the driving surface.

The other coefficient, Kd, designed to dump this 'oscillatory' movement - it smothes the trajectory. It models resistance to fast movements toward the reference line in latteral direction.

The ratio betwen Kp and Kd is dependent on many factors, such as speed, existing curvature of the road, maximum amplitude selected for steering. In some cases, I found that the more straight segments 
the road has the higher the ratio of Kd is desired, but then, it would be harder to make a sharp turn. And vice versa, the more sharp turns there are in the sequence, the more value one would want 
to assign to Kp. I found that with throttle set to contstant of 0.3 it was possible to have Kd at 0.75 and Kp at 0.2 and drive safely, but higher throttle would result in vehicle pushed outside of 
drivable area. 

If the simulator had an external factor such as steering bias, wind-force or others, I would need to use a non-zero Ki coeffient to account for the integral term of PID controller which allows to deal with
biases in the model. But, fortunately, it was not required, b/c of setup of the simulator.

Developing an improvised controller for throttle allowed to increase the maximum speed from about 30mph to 42mph while making hard turns safer since the controller also breaks the car. The Kp and Kd were
allowed to be held contstant in such a configuration with values shown above. See video for the demo of such controller.

---

## Dependencies

* cmake >= 3.5
 * All OSes: [click here for installation instructions](https://cmake.org/install/)
* make >= 4.1(mac, linux), 3.81(Windows)
  * Linux: make is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: [install Xcode command line tools to get make](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: [Click here for installation instructions](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm)
* gcc/g++ >= 5.4
  * Linux: gcc / g++ is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: same deal as make - [install Xcode command line tools]((https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: recommend using [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)
* [uWebSockets](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets)
  * Run either `./install-mac.sh` or `./install-ubuntu.sh`.
  * If you install from source, checkout to commit `e94b6e1`, i.e.
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets 
    cd uWebSockets
    git checkout e94b6e1
    ```
    Some function signatures have changed in v0.14.x. See [this PR](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-MPC-Project/pull/3) for more details.
* Simulator. You can download these from the [project intro page](https://github.com/udacity/self-driving-car-sim/releases) in the classroom.

Fellow students have put together a guide to Windows set-up for the project [here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-selfdrivingcar/files/Kidnapped_Vehicle_Windows_Setup.pdf) if the environment you have set up for the Sensor Fusion projects does not work for this project. There's also an experimental patch for windows in this [PR](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-PID-Control-Project/pull/3).

## Basic Build Instructions

1. Clone this repo.
2. Make a build directory: `mkdir build && cd build`
3. Compile: `cmake .. && make`
4. Run it: `./pid`. 

Tips for setting up your environment can be found [here](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/40f38239-66b6-46ec-ae68-03afd8a601c8/modules/0949fca6-b379-42af-a919-ee50aa304e6a/lessons/f758c44c-5e40-4e01-93b5-1a82aa4e044f/concepts/23d376c7-0195-4276-bdf0-e02f1f3c665d)

## Editor Settings

We've purposefully kept editor configuration files out of this repo in order to
keep it as simple and environment agnostic as possible. However, we recommend
using the following settings:

* indent using spaces
* set tab width to 2 spaces (keeps the matrices in source code aligned)

## Code Style

Please (do your best to) stick to [Google's C++ style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).

## Project Instructions and Rubric

Note: regardless of the changes you make, your project must be buildable using
cmake and make!

More information is only accessible by people who are already enrolled in Term 2
of CarND. If you are enrolled, see [the project page](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/40f38239-66b6-46ec-ae68-03afd8a601c8/modules/f1820894-8322-4bb3-81aa-b26b3c6dcbaf/lessons/e8235395-22dd-4b87-88e0-d108c5e5bbf4/concepts/6a4d8d42-6a04-4aa6-b284-1697c0fd6562)
for instructions and the project rubric.

## Hints!

* You don't have to follow this directory structure, but if you do, your work
  will span all of the .cpp files here. Keep an eye out for TODOs.

## Call for IDE Profiles Pull Requests

Help your fellow students!

We decided to create Makefiles with cmake to keep this project as platform
agnostic as possible. Similarly, we omitted IDE profiles in order to we ensure
that students don't feel pressured to use one IDE or another.

However! I'd love to help people get up and running with their IDEs of choice.
If you've created a profile for an IDE that you think other students would
appreciate, we'd love to have you add the requisite profile files and
instructions to ide_profiles/. For example if you wanted to add a VS Code
profile, you'd add:

* /ide_profiles/vscode/.vscode
* /ide_profiles/vscode/README.md

The README should explain what the profile does, how to take advantage of it,
and how to install it.

Frankly, I've never been involved in a project with multiple IDE profiles
before. I believe the best way to handle this would be to keep them out of the
repo root to avoid clutter. My expectation is that most profiles will include
instructions to copy files to a new location to get picked up by the IDE, but
that's just a guess.

One last note here: regardless of the IDE used, every submitted project must
still be compilable with cmake and make./

## How to write a README
A well written README file can enhance your project and portfolio.  Develop your abilities to create professional README files by completing [this free course](https://www.udacity.com/course/writing-readmes--ud777).

